Update Exposing an Integration Service as a Managed API (#984)
wso2/docs-mi: en/docs/learn/integration-tutorials/service-catalog-tutorial.md

## What you'll build

> In this tutorial, you are defining an integration service using Micro Integrator Extension for Visual Studio Code (MI for VS Code) and exposing it as a managed API to the API marketplace. API consumers then **discover** the API from the marketplace, **subscribe** to it, and **use it** for application development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll define an integration service using Micro Integrator Extension for Visual Studio Code (MI for VS Code) and expose it as a managed API to the API marketplace. API consumers then **discover** the API from the marketplace, **subscribe** to it, and **use it** for application development.
```

Follow the steps given below to build this use case and try it out.

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

{!includes/setting-up-workspace-for-mi-for-vscode.md!}

### Step 2: Develop the integration artifacts

Follow the instructions given in this section to create and configure the required artifacts.

#### Create an Integration project

{!includes/create-new-project.md!}

4. In the **Project Creation Form**, enter `ServiceCatalogSample` as the **Project Name**.

5. Provide a location under **Select Project Directory**.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/create-new-project.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/create-new-project-integration-first.png" alt="create new project" width="80%"></a>

6. Click **Create**.

Now let's start designing the integration by adding the necessary artifacts.

#### Create an Endpoint

> An Endpoint artifact is required for the purpose of exposing the URL that connects to the back-end service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Endpoint artifact is required to expose the back-end service URL.
```

Author: Fixed with [dcbc2d1](https://github.com/wso2/docs-mi/pull/984/commits/dcbc2d1cb3e0dd38f951300393aca407744f0acd)

9. From the **Palette**, select **Respond** mediator under the **Mediators** > **Generic** section.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/respond-mediator.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/respond-mediator.png" alt="respond mediator" width="30%"></a>

10. Click **Submit**.

You have successfully created all the artifacts that are required for sending a request through the Micro Integrator to the back-end service.

<a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/integration-sequence.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/integration-sequence.png" alt="integration sequence" width="80%"></a>

### Step 3: Configure the Micro Integrator

!!! info "Prerequisites"
    Before you begin, install Micro Integrator on your machine:

    1. Go to the [WSO2 Micro Integrator web page](https://wso2.com/integration/micro-integrator/#), click **Download**, provide necessary details, and then click **Zip Archive** to download the Micro Integrator distribution as a ZIP file.
    

>     2. Extract the ZIP file. The extracted folder will be referred as the `<MI_HOME>` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Extract the ZIP file. The extracted folder will be referred to as the `<MI_HOME>` folder.
```

> The Micro Integrator can automatically publishes artifacts to the **Service Catalog** in the **API Publisher** portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Micro Integrator can automatically publish artifacts to the **Service Catalog** in the **API Publisher** portal.
```

> The Micro Integrator contains a client application, which automatically publishes artifacts to the **Service Catalog** in the **API Publisher** portal. 

Reviewer 2: Do we have to mention about the client application here, as it is an internal detail

Author: Fixed with [dcbc2d1](https://github.com/wso2/docs-mi/pull/984/commits/dcbc2d1cb3e0dd38f951300393aca407744f0acd)

     
    !!! Tip
        The default username and password for connecting to the API gateway is `admin`.

    ```toml
    [[service_catalog]]
    apim_host = "https://localhost:9443"
    enable = true
    username = "admin"
    password = "admin"
    ```

!!! Note
    Since the integration developer may not know the API URL when it gets deployed in the Micro Integrator, the URL of the API will be parameterize as `https://{MI_HOST}:{MI_PORT}/healthcare` which will be resolved later using environment variables `MI_HOST` and `MI_PORT` respectively. By default, `localhost` will be used as the `MI_HOST` and `8253` as the `MI_PORT`. Depending on your deployment, you may need to update these environment variables.

### Step 4: Start the API Manager runtime

Let's start the API Manager runtime before starting the Micro Integrator.

1.  Download and set up [WSO2 API Manager](https://wso2.com/api-management/).
2.  Start the [API-M server](https://apim.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/install-and-setup/install/installing-the-product/running-the-api-m/).

### Step 5: Build and run the artifacts

> 1. Click on the Command Palette on the top of the VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the Command Palette at the top of the VS Code.
```

2. Type `>` to show the available commands.

3. Select **MI: Add MI server**.

4. Select **Add MI server**.

> 5. Select the folder where `<MI_HOME>` is located. This wll be set as the **current server path**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select the folder where `<MI_HOME>` is located. This will be set as the **current server path**.
```

        <td>
          <code>GET</code> <br> This defines that the API resource only handles requests where the HTTP method is GET.
        </td>
      </tr>
    </table>

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/edit-api-resource.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/edit-api-resource.png" alt="edit API resource" width="40%"></a>

8. Click **Update**.

#### Create the mediation logic

You can now configure the mediation logic to handle requests.

1. To get started, click on the **+** icon to add the first mediator to the sequence.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/add-log.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/add-log.png" alt="add log" width="80%"></a>

2. Select **Log** mediator in the **Generic** section under **All Mediators**.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/log-mediator.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/tutorials/sending-simple-message-to-service/log-mediator.png" alt="log mediator" width="30%"></a>

>     !!! Note

Reviewer 2: Should this be a note? Can we add in the same level

Author: Fixed with [12fb9cf](https://github.com/wso2/docs-mi/pull/984/commits/12fb9cff24e485d2451dd6e40e7502db7849dae2)

<a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/api-gateway-deployment-summary.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/api-gateway-deployment-summary.png" alt="api first revision"></a>

### Step 7: Publish the API

Go to the API overview in the **Publisher** portal and click **Publish** for the `HealthcareAPI` as shown below.

<a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/api-overview-publish.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/api-overview-publish.png"></a>

The API is now available in the **Developer** portal for consumers to access.

> ### Step 8: Use the API

Reviewer: Let's rephrase this line (444): `Open a terminal, navigate to the location where you saved the back-end service.`
as `Open a terminal and navigate to the location of the back-end service.`

Author: Fixed with [dcbc2d1](https://github.com/wso2/docs-mi/pull/984/commits/dcbc2d1cb3e0dd38f951300393aca407744f0acd)

        ```

1.  Sign in to the **Developer** portal: `https://localhost:9443/devportal/apis`. 

    !!! Tip
        Use `admin` as the username and password.

2.  Go to the **API** tab. The `HealthcareAPI` is listed as shown below.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-api-list.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-api-list.png"></a>

3.  Select the `HealthcareAPI` to open the API overview.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-api-overview.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-api-overview.png"></a>

4.  Click **API Console** under **Try Out** for the `HealthcareAPI` in the **Developer** portal as shown below.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-healthcare-api-try-it.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/tutorials/service-catalog/developer-portal-healthcare-api-try-it.png"></a>

5.  Enter the username and password for Basic Authentication.

    !!! Tip

>         Use `admin` as the user name and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Use `admin` as the username and password.
```

3.  Expand the **/querydoctor/{category}** resource and click **Try it out**.

> 4.  Let's specify `surgery` as the doctor category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Specify `surgery` as the doctor category.
```
